Add instruction for remote debugging with PyCharm (#171)
valohai/docs: source/howto/remote-access/pycharm.rst

.. meta::
    :description: How to attach a remote debugger from PyCharm to a Valohai execution

.. _remote-ssh-pycharm:

Debug from PyCharm
##################

.. warning::

>     This guide assumes you're already familiar with the fundamentals of Valohai and are working with a project that's connected to a Git-repository, and configured on Valohai.

Reviewer: Nitpick: I don't think git repository is spelled together like that. 🤔

Author: It's not. 😅

Reviewer: (Also the ones below)

>     This guide assumes you're already familiar with the fundamentals of Valohai and are working with a project that's connected to a Git-repository, and configured on Valohai.

Author: ```suggestion
    This guide assumes you're already familiar with the fundamentals of Valohai and are working with a project that's connected to a Git repository, and configured on Valohai.
```

.. warning::

    Remote debugging is only available in PyCharm Professional.

In this guide we'll look at attaching the PyCharm remote debugger to a Valohai execution.

1. Sample Code
---------------

For this example we'll use the following simple example code:

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    import time

    for x in range(1,20) :
        print(f"Doing computation {x}")
        data = np.random.random((50,50))
        sum = np.sum(data)
        time.sleep(2)

And the corresponding ``valohai.yaml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - step:
      name: train
      image: python:3.9
      command: 

>         - pip install numpy

Reviewer: Is this missing the pydevd install?

        - python train.py

1. Create a new Debug Configuration in PyCharm
-----------------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Python Debug Server in PyCharm. The IDE host name should be ``localhost`` and the port should be the port that you want to have listening for incoming debug connections on your local machine (here 1234).
```

> Create a new Python Debug Server in PyCharm. The IDE host name should be ``localhost`` and the Port the port that you want to have listening on your local machine (here 1234).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Python Debug Server in PyCharm. The IDE host name should be ``localhost`` and the port should be the port that you want to have listening to incoming debug connections on your local machine (here 1234).
```

.. image:: /_images/ssh_remote_debug_pycharm_conf1.png
    :alt: Create a new Python Debug Server in PyCharm

.. image:: /_images/ssh_remote_debug_pycharm_conf2.png
    :alt: Create a new Python Debug Server in PyCharm

You can also now start the created Debug Server and leave it to wait for the process connection. 

2. Use ``pydevd_pycharm``
-------------------------

Import ``pydevd_pycharm`` and set it to wait for connection with the debugger. 

.. code-block:: python
    :emphasize-lines: 1,6-14

    import pydevd_pycharm
    import numpy as np
    import time

    # The script is halted here, until a debugger is attached
    connected = False
    while not connected:
        try:
            # The arbitrary container port 1234 on the worker machine is set to connect with the debugger.
            # Note that this is not the same port you specified during step 1 as that is on your local machine. 
            pydevd_pycharm.settrace('localhost', port=1234, stdoutToServer=True, stderrToServer=True)
            connected = True
        except Exception as e:

>             time.sleep(10)

Reviewer: We could also
- shorten this to something like 3 seconds 
- add a print("waiting for connections")
- yeet that e as it isn't used

    for x in range(1,20) :
        print(f"Doing computation {x}")
        data = np.random.random((50,50))
        sum = np.sum(data)
        time.sleep(2)

> Now update the ``valohai.yaml`` file to install ``pydevd_pycharm`` in your Valohai execution. 

Author: ```suggestion
Now update the ``valohai.yaml`` file to install ``pydevd_pycharm`` in your Valohai execution. You can copy the correct version from the Run Configuration section in PyCharm.
```

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 5

    - step:
      name: train
      image: python:3.9
      command: 
        - pip install numpy pydevd_pycharm~=<PYCHARM-VERSION>
        - python train.py

Commit your changes and push them to your Git-repository.

Then launch a new Valohai execution with SSH debugging enabled. Follow the :ref:`remote-ssh` how-to guide for detailed instructions.

.. note:: 

    You don't need to worry about the ``ConnectionRefusedError: [Errno 111] Connection refused`` in the logs, that will be fixed in the last step. 

3. Connect from PyCharm to a remote execution
-----------------------------------------------

Since ``pydevd_pycharm`` does not have a listen mode, you will need to establish a reverse SSH tunnel between your local machine and Valohai worker instance. 
You'll get the IP of the worker machine from the Valohai execution logs.

.. code-block:: bash

    ssh -i <PATH-TO-YOUR-PRIVATE-SSH-KEY> <IP-FROM-VALOHAI> -p 2222 -R 1234:localhost:1234 -t /bin/bash

> Next, you will see a prompt saying that the filepath on the worker machine cannot be found in project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might see a prompt saying that the filepath on the worker machine cannot be found in project. 
```

This happens because the path mapping was not defined when creating the debugging configuration. You can just click on the "Auto detect" to set the mapping. 

.. image:: /_images/ssh_remote_debug_pycharm_path.png
    :alt: Choose Auto detect for the path mapping

Finally, you should see a message in the Debugger console saying that the connection was established. 

.. note:: 

>     If you created the SSH connection without the reverse portforwarding, you don't need to drop it but you can adjust the parameters from SSH's internal shell:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you created the SSH connection without reverse port forwarding, you don't need to interrupt the connection in order to adjust the parameters from SSH's internal shell:
```
